cool so um I figured that it would be
nice to like get a little bit of
direction from you as to what would be
foolish to see because I'd have a lot of
stuff that xbox or a while a long time
so I can go from like a pretty basic
intro but I could also do like a much
more specific deep dive into the tech
off like how different things work or I
could just focus on on more top and use
cases or yeah like what are some of the
things that people are interested in
hearing about like so here okay um it's
a little bit reeking up if you type it
then that would be awesome hi can you
hear me now okay yes I can hear you
apart if just some of the very basic
things you know how to I PFS add and add
a file into the system okay with just
couple things I got stuck on easy to add
a folder with a number of fire inside
the brand it's when you want to add an X
file number six into the same folder
like I'm used to using a Windows
Explorer machine for example that kind
of thing how do you manage we need to
change the contents of the file what we
want to keep the same URL to the users
that are out there and then also about
it digitally sign a file and that's
wrong I'm sayin managing basics CSV
up the order tread I don't know how far
to develop with yourself yet about
linked data we spoke you before you had
good ideas on JD or stuff like that so
maybe you can share with us where that
direction is going and then finally I be
is Therese it could be the case you or
we'd refer you know the sample quick
code reader that you have like I was
surprised that that you can have
application so easy on I PFS
well so be nice to see so those three
areas handle files the same as when to
explore delay in data and then the
applications that's what I'd be
interested in please you have you can
show us that if you're great that's good
other people and maybe a pickoff I love
you but I p if s is swell sorry broke up
a little bit I can your pin to the last
part a pick up an overview of what
I PS its people here were never heard
about it yep that sounds good as well so
I don't really know what I PFS is and
I'm just wondering what are some of the
use cases in the way over mm-hmm yep
sounds good and how to help you yes to
create a permanent data store data think
it's a lot of this was EDM was asked yep
cool um sounds good yes alright awesome
um so I think like one of the cool
things about data as well is that I
actually started working on I PFS
because I wanted to build a I want to
fix some problems with data like I think
there's a whole bunch of issues without
you data management today and this is
kind of where I PFS came out of so I
thought it'd be cool to like just talk a
little bit about that first and then
jump into a kind of like at a high level
overview of like what I think that's is
for the people that don't know if yet
and then just go straight into like the
use cases I guess and then we I have a
lunch of ways in which I can like dive
in into explaining different parts of
the tech like how say how like the
linking actually works and how does the
resolution actually work and how its
content discovered or how does the
signing work and all
myself so we can cover of those
whichever makes sense but we can like
jump around to that that stuff so cool
i'll i'll try to like just place through
the stuff that I had before on on Mike
open data so Gerald share again see
definitely like a presenting through
hangouts it's not as good as a kid out
to be there could be cool so alright
we're back here again so yes so back a
while back I was working on so this will
go back for a while so this was a
presentation that i made in 2014 for a
tool that I was making called beta and a
package manager that I was making for
data called data decks and so the idea
there was that a data management has a
whole bunch of problems that software
engineering like solved and i'm just
going to just kind of go through these
slides really quickly i'm sure that
you've you know a lot of these problems
so the kind of problems that identified
where there's a bunch of issues and
distribution like it's very inefficient
to move around data look if you have
data sets that are hundreds of gigabytes
or terabytes or petabytes in size it's
very inefficient to move them around the
internet because the weight of the
network is set up you may not have the
fastest pipes to wherever it is that you
have to write the data through and many
times you want the data to move from one
computer to another sometimes in the
same room sometimes in the same building
and you really shouldn't be moving it
through the backbone and made us as well
there is usually just one host for the
data so through ATP or ftp or something
like that and in reality you should be
using the bandwidth hope everybody else
like being able to collaboratively share
the data another issue is versioning so
i'm sure the people have seen like
horrible versioning schemes with how
people use data I think I think you guys
you seek out at some point right so like
that's what we really good and like you
you actually track the virgins and
you track the different things but most
people that use data and most people
that are generated data sets and so on
like don't do that at all they don't
version oftentimes certain data sets are
no longer available certain versions are
have disappeared from the internet you
can't even get in the back and many
times there are papers that reference
data sets that are no longer available
so the results cannot be reproduced
anymore so this is a a serious problem
so yeah this is this this is whole
notion of permanence that is kind of
broken with them with how people are
using data in the in the internet like
that they don't ensure that the data
stays there over long periods of time
and this is I'll go ahead a bit more
into why why this happens um then
there's another issue of indexing like
how how do you find the data so you're
looking for like how do you find data
wipe specific people and so on there's
many different repositories they don't
really aren't really interoperable
they're all really hard to use some of
them you have to pay for and so on and
it's kind of a mess and reality in in
software code distribution it's really
really nice like the whole package
management and indexing of code it's
really good so it would be useful to
move over some of those solutions and
then there's of course like problems the
formatting like you have the data in
some format and moving it around between
formats is a huge mess and many times
people spend a whole bunch of time just
on this alone you know hundreds of hours
moving or data around between formats
and making sure that it's right and so
on when reality well you should just be
able to like use it then this of course
like and saying many times you can't use
the data that you found because it's not
licensed correctly and this is or it has
no license and this is silly and the
last part is something that kind of
described as open access there is a lot
of open data out there that you can't
actually use because it's difficult to
get to or you can't really fork or you
don't have the rights to republish and
so there's a separate part of this which
is making it extremely easy to
on the data and collaborate on it and so
for in my perspective back then I
thought that okay like data package
managers would really solve this like if
we take the source code package managers
and create one for for data then we can
solve a lot of these problems right so
like with distribution we can use
instead of going from a centralized
server based type of thing we could use
peer to peer and that is really good for
bandwidth and really good for by
utilizing the network for versioning we
can apply like strict versioning
semantics and make sure that like people
actually follow them and require that
that uh yeah create a whole bunch of
tools that like really require
versioning and so on the same way that
it works in software to make sure that
like people are actually versioning
their data and backing up every single
version so another part of this is if
you have a really large data set and you
clean it up a little bit and you
republish it again you shouldn't have to
republish terabytes of data you should
be able to just incrementally back up
the next bits but not have to like
duplicate all of the data from the past
right so this is doable if we have good
versioning for large files which for
example get doesn't do but that we can
do with with IP us and then permanence
is about a way of organizing a lot of
people to share and distribute the same
data indexing is hey we we should just
be able to have that where we can find
an index of public data out there
interesting things like this right so so
there's a lot of ways in which software
collaboration has improved in ways that
our data collaboration has not and so
back then I started working on a thing
called data and data decks so data was a
like this package manager thing and
David X was just this index and then
yeah like the goal is to just get it to
be as easy as publishing code but for
data and it was through that that I
thought I discovered it was kind of like
a bigger underlying problem because my
solution there was to try to build
something kind of like it and kind of
like the torrent and i happen upon
something larger and this is how I came
to I
create I PFS cincy and back then
actually was called gfs and I end up
changing the name later and so the goal
when I ship this was too great I'll trip
this tool now and then I'll just rebase
it on top y of gfs at the time and so on
and so I built this like yeah I like the
fact manager that you could use and that
ended up getting folded into the dad
project I'm sure that you've seen to
some extent that project somewhere I
know how much you've you've looked at
but I can direct you to like I continued
links to to it and so on but um there we
go so yeah like a that project is a
project to version two great like
versioning and data flow semantics
around just like this distributed
tooling and I started on the data stuff
and then I kind of went down to a lower
level to actually really think through
how does data move around in pipes and
to create like a a good set of network
protocols to move all this around um and
then my friend Max who was creating data
dad at the time focus more on the on the
upper part of like the interfaces
between people and being able to use it
kind of like github and so on and we'll
be collaborating a number of things on
the road for example data text at then
we've been meaning to resurface data
decks and actually have a nice index but
and like now that I have we have I PFS
as possible we just need to like go and
do it so yeah that's a sort of the
origin of I PFS right and so what
happened was that um I realized that the
solution for this data problem applied
more generally could be a solution for a
number of problems in the web and so
this this introduction kind of uh I'll
just make a bit short there's a few
talks out there where I go in depth into
kind of like the history of the internet
a little bit and discussing why the web
has certain problems right now so I'll
just kind of mention them at the moment
but definitely listen you like
you can check out where I kind of go
in-depth right so so the webos is like
really huge application platform that we
all use and that we rely on daily we are
now moving more and more of our lives
directly through not just the internet
but specifically web applications right
so these are applications that are
delivered to us in our browsers whether
in a desktop or mobile and which
oftentimes run huge parts of our lives
right like from our work in terms of
email to learning about new things in
terms of Wikipedia and Khan Academy and
Coursera and you know so on to just
entertainment to like just any kinds of
collaboration and and so on right so
it's a the capabilities of the web and
problems in the web directly translate
to problems in our capabilities as
humans today which is kind of crazy
right like it's it's kind of crazy to
think that just some the fact that the
the web doesn't do certain things might
mean a substantially different day to
day life which is kind of weird to think
about right but yeah so some of the
problems that I'll just mention them and
we'll go extensively in detail here but
you know it's it's massively inefficient
like data gets sent many times through
the backbone it is oh yeah here we
measured a Gangnam style and apparently
it's been served close to 500 petabytes
of just Gangnam style of the same video
being sent out to you know two billion
Watchers the web doesn't work offline so
if you get disconnected from the
backbone so I'd only you stop being able
to use your web applications even though
you may have you everyone you want to
collaborate with you may be in the same
room it doesn't actually work that way
there is like you you still have to
connect to the backbone which is silly
it doesn't really work in mobile and IOT
and so on and of course if there's any
kind of like natural disaster or some
major problem the whole thing falls
apart and nothing works which is really
crazy right like when you think about
the moments when you might need these
applications the most
they're not selling out available and of
course there's like human disasters
where you know there's things like
censorship and so on or people shutting
down the internet and then suddenly all
the tools that people were using to
communicate like all these messengers
are suddenly not working anymore and so
this is a serious issue and so I think
we should be building web applications
such that they work or even you know
applications in general such as they
work in these kinds of failure modes and
there's a I used to term web application
loosely here because a lot of these are
mobile apps but in reality they're
connecting to each other and to the to
the rest of the networks through the web
and they're making web requests so it's
not a full-fledged web app but it's
still kind of using the same same
transport for the data then there is of
course issues of data control and thank
you you know this really well but
basically like all these large companies
start owning all the information that
you give them and any kind of reference
that you have to the content then you
might want to give to somebody else
always go strictly through them because
of how HTTP works if you make a post on
on Facebook or Twitter or something you
have to hand out a URL that goes through
them and that means that they decide if
you decide you like doing your account
or they go under or um they decide to
change the policies for something that
data may no longer be there which is not
really good and you can't really extract
it and rehost it like you can sort of do
it but it's not the same thing and
certainly the links will change and so
on so ideally you would have you will be
able to create identify that don't
change over time then there's tons of
security problems don't want go to into
tolling in there except when they
mention that uh the beta is not
authenticated or encrypted at rest which
means that there's all of these
computers holding your data and other
people say that and yes the the
connection between your browser and
those computers is encrypted but the
data is not encrypted or signed which
means that anybody can change it or
anybody can steal it address which is a
problem and so we should be moving to a
world where the data itself it's armored
cool so lots of rounds in the web and
turns out that a whit I PFS with a small
set of architectural changes in how web
pages move around we can solve a lot of
these or make a lot of these at least
easier to do solving practice for
developers so things like making the web
operate distributed so that you don't
have a central point of failure making
the web upgrade offline or semi
disconnected where you have sets of
people in the same room and you should
be able to get the data from them give
permanence in terms of the identifiers
my data so it such that if you have the
data and you have an identifier for it
you can continue serving it over time
even though other people like may like
you no longer have to rely on the
specific website holding it right look
you can replicate all your data and
continue serving it Nikki and safer of
course like so cleaning up those
interactions and making it more
efficient and faster so yeah the in
short like the IP fence is just a
protocol to upgrade how the web works it
is meant as a compliment or replacement
to http and that's kinda like the layer
that we were going up and you can think
of it as a web of merkel links so i'll
explain what those are in a moment but
it's if you've never heard of a miracle
tree or something it's a data structure
that also is used in Gibbs for
versioning or in bittorrent or in
Bitcoin for payments and it's used in a
lot of file systems and a lot of
different cryptographic applications and
so on so it's a find like a really great
data structure that gives you a bunch of
really nice properties and I think
that's kind of a combination of these
different text and we have like this
large stack of protocols that emerged
around this and so the the gist of it is
that you can think of it as a new
network protocol where we have separated
the concerns of different parts of the
system where we have connectivity
between each pier
and the routing for content is like
different layers and then we have how we
represent the content as a kind of
middle layer that we and we call that I
pld and we have naming on top of that
and so on this is again like three
super-specific and I just going to want
to mention it a little bit and can dive
into more detail later or I can turn
into links and so the the all the bottom
layer all of the probably the hardest
part of implementing something like a
PFS is getting the peer-to-peer stuff
right and all of that is we're creating
a library called lip p2p that people can
use and it's just like a lot of it's a
big library of like a collection of
modules that people can use an important
and so on now this is something that I
thought I wish people had done before
and when they had built Pierre Pierre
systems like BitTorrent and so on so we
didn't have to rebuild everything but
from now on people won't have to cool so
the most interesting part perhaps about
hypothesis how to define the data and to
mention this format that we have I pld
I'll go into a little bit more detail
later about how it works but the the
whole idea is that I PFS in a way it's
kind of like an Internet of data where
you add different data structures into
the system and you're able to reference
each other's data structures but you
don't really need to reference the
locations so when you think about web
two point oh it kind of works like this
where you have servers connecting to
each other and these servers have
databases and you have both programs and
end data in each one of these locations
and these connections between servers
will mediate interactions and all you
have really is references to servers and
so you have a reference to go and talk
to certain server and to run a certain
program or to get some data and what
we're trying to move towards is
something more like this and it's not
just us I think there's like the whole
world of block chains and there's a
there's a a really big push to invert
the relationship here we're in reality
you have you still have computers and
databases and so on but these are
following standard open protocols that
everyone can can use and it's really
about the data and the programs
operating together so you hold
references to data itself not necessary
necessarily to specific servers so that
if if I want to make use of some item in
the web I should be able to reference
that item directly with a with a URI
instead of a URL so the point there is
like you it doesn't really matter
sometimes it matters who does something
for you but you don't ever want to
depend on them forever like you want to
make it so that you can change the
dependency and you something else
without having to change the references
so I profess now is like this really
large open source project we have
hundreds of contributors lots of people
are working on it there's like a
substantially large network in terms of
like the number of nodes this this still
seems pretty small we had this is a
large map of like a heat map of like
activity this was I think like 2000
knows when this was measured and that's
about a fifth of the Bitcoin network and
of course Victoria is much much larger
this these numbers will spike up once we
deploy our browser version of a PFS
where it becomes extremely easy to like
spin up new nodes so these are two
thousand different developers and so on
that are running nodes themselves I
think it not all 2,000 that or a run at
the same time here and these were
measured over a period of I think a few
days so people definitely use it go
online and disconnect over kind and we
have hundreds of thousands of websites
already on it and hundreds of millions
to billions of files and people are
using it for all sorts of stuff so video
distribution and streaming so that works
really well so you can have video
players that are loading video from each
other's computers and you never really
have to touch any kind of central
location people are using it for legal
document so there's a few archives of
legal stuff there people are making
entertainment sites like immature people
are moving around 3d models
these are like really big usually really
big files and so on so it's it's
difficult for people to upload them and
so people are using up if I swear it
people are starting to design games on
top of it people are moving around lots
of papers both the actual PDFs
and people are using it for like blogs
personal websites and so on and probably
the most interesting use case is totally
distributed web apps and this is where I
really don't have to care about the test
text here but the idea there it's like
that there's these websites where the
code itself it stored with a neck DFS
and so all when you access a site you
would download the code through our PFS
you run it locally and you store all the
data like generate directly like bffs so
there's really no centralized location
no origin server at all and once you
have that code that application nobody
can really take it away from you in a
sense that that can continue to work as
long as you have the code so the website
can't you know tomorrow disappear or
something or change itself like what
happens often is that you have you find
some application that works really well
you find a version that you like but
then a few days later somebody updates
it and it's no longer exactly how you
how you use that and so this puts the
control backing out in the in the user's
hand any of people are starting to make
forums and chat and messaging and blogs
and so on top of this so there's like a
couple of really cool applications the
chat one I think is the most impressive
one where you have like real-time chat
over this and that means you can do like
end-to-end encryption there and you can
now really go you can really have the
security of the system people use it for
packet loungers and I think this is
where the the best connection to data is
where in terms of like what I was
talking about before this day the next
thing will be used will be creating a
database again now that we have a PFS
and so the idea here is package managers
usually are centralized but will that be
F as they can be completely distributed
peer-to-peer so all of the data can be
moved around computer computer and so if
you if you need to download some code
from each other like and you have it and
you know that the code is somewhere in
the same you know room sometimes you
should be able to get it immediately and
we have it working with NPM already
unpack men from our clinic arch linux
and more are coming coming soon now
people are using it for
secure document so these are think of
like the distributed ledger use case so
everyone right now is getting really
really crazy about like using block
chains for storing sign documents and so
on and you don't really need a block
chain for that you you use the block
chain merely to timestamp but the sign
documents people are actually storing
them when i pea a facile there so few
sites that are theoretically storing
stuff on block chains but it's the data
snot on the blockchain latest i might
give us I may just store the hash in the
like the link to I profess in the block
chain and people are already using it at
various places like this so it's already
in use in banks legal archives yeah like
watching people in smart contracts and
so on so this is I think probably one of
the use cases that you care about so
yeah like i mentioned people are using
it in black jeans for a lot of stuff
yeah so a theorem in bitcoin communities
both are looking at this and lots of
people are using it also to archive a
lot of data so there's several efforts
to take data from all these different
sites and replicated and archive it with
with ipf s so that's that's really cool
and I think a couple of at least one in
university has like they dump their
entire archive which was pretty exciting
and we're looking at things like
Wikipedia and archive.org and open
street maps and so on because those are
usually they have like this huge
bandwidth costs for them and it really
shouldn't be the case like once we have
the browser implementation of about BFS
it'll be a lot faster and so to explain
a little bit of how that works which I
think like the most important thing to
think about is like the how does a bee
how does that actually work where you
have like a link and you try to reach
you the data right so normally you're
used to an HTTP link like this we have a
domain and a file and you are mapping it
to a location right so what that looks
like is this where you have like say
they have the internet and you have a
whole bunch of computers there and you
have and maybe all of them have this
specific file but only you
must go access it from one specific host
because that's what the IP addresses all
secretive and instead what if we could
use hashes and then just try and find
who has the data so you could do
something like this where in reality
anybody could serve you the data even if
they're next to you and so we do that
with Merkel linking and so this is where
we use the hash and the content address
of something and we create like this
graph nerdy the hood and then we we
point key links to those so these are
these are I can go and explain this
towards the end but this is where we
have sine links that don't change but
the data is mutable so the content
addresses are immutable and the content
for those can never change once you do
it if you create if you change the file
or something the address will change as
well the key names are the ones that you
can hand out the address and they
address the same but you can update what
they point to so the key names are
pointers to immutable data if that makes
sense you can think of them kind of like
branches and get I can explain how that
works exactly later on but in the last
part is you can actually use DNS to
achieve human readability so at the very
very end you can use DNS with like a
human readable name and you map it to a
key name and the new map pack your name
to a constant address so you have human
readability pointing to just mutability
and then mutability pointing to
immutability hope that I just I guess
I'll ask right now like are there any
questions around this I can explain how
the key name works but does that sort of
make sense yeah yes cool so the model
for I PFS is that I profess is a
protocol and it's a you know program and
a set of tools that people run and this
can be interested any computer or any
whenever there's a running program that
implements a protocol that's called an
IP FS node each one of these has a
public/private key pair these nodes
connect to each other and find each
other through a series of discovery
protocol
and then they store and distribute part
of this huge bag of content rights like
there's this this really really large
graph of content all of which is linked
through usually Merkel links that are
immutable but sometimes you have mutable
legs in there and you move around those
those pieces of content and that is like
what a test is for and you can use it
for you can run it as a server or you
can use it embedded applications and
we're kind of destroying the distinction
between a client and server we want
everything to be I PFS nodes and so you
should have when you have an application
you should be able to run it usually
kind of like all client side though
there are of course like processing that
you need to do sometimes in the internet
but you shouldn't depend on that to be
around as the sole arbiter of truth like
you should be able to just use those but
not necessarily depend on them to main
there in the future all right so I'll
jump to like open data use cases
directly and then I can we can go into
like the more in-depth technical details
so this just kind of maps back to to
what we're discussing earlier so the you
know efficient distribution of large
data like this really just means when
you're in a room with a lot of people
you should be able to move data as
efficiently as possible and this applies
the same way to data centers right so if
you have data center one computer it's
very close to another you should be able
to just short circuit in through the
internet and not have to go through some
like third parties elsewhere so
versioning larger complex data this is
you know straight up the same kind of
semantics that get gives you but
applying it to large data and so this is
something that we're achieving with
different kinds of data structure so we
have a commit kind of like gets and so
you can commit on on data this is not
yet shipped in the main distribution but
will be relatively soon we're just
perfecting the formats right now but the
idea there is like you can you should be
able to to fork data and to create
patches and so on the same way that you
do so 4 4 code and you want to be pretty
efficient as to how you do that I think
one of the the main issue with most
burgeoning systems today is that they
don't work on large data and there are
more interesting data structures there
that people are using these are have
less applications to data and more to
distribute applications so CR DTS and
and so on there are like different
mystery system style algorithms and so
on that you can use to have virgin data
and so on that are converges over time
that's I guess like less interesting to
to just data archives then there's a
whole notion of signing an
authenticating data so this is what
we're talking about before so like you
should be able to just take dr. and sign
them and just put them in the network
and if people can verify that the key is
correct and the signature is correct
then they have a a much stronger belief
about the authenticity of the document
and this is not really done on the web
that much these days of course like code
is signed and a few different groups
actually sign their data but on the
whole like the web is usually completely
on sign and so that's something that we
can help a lot with yeah yeah so the
permanence is per- like remove this
notion of like you know landing on four
fours like if you the data was there at
some point and somebody has it you
should be able to serve it right so many
times these four force are merely in a
result of people sometimes changing the
URL scheme so they move around files in
their server or they or maybe they
stopped hosting it but other people are
hosting it so you shouldn't lose that
just because one person stopped doing so
and so yeah this goes back to this like
you should be able to if you have a key
name anybody should be able to to serve
that so yeah so then did archiving and
mirroring so the archiving part is
really important to us this is where it
for a long time just we have this this
really huge imperative to archive the
data that we use for all sorts of
important records and that's we've moved
to the digital age that hasn't really
kept up the same way so we
lots of digital archives are really
fragile and could disappear on many
times the data is hosted only in a few
data centers and it could be you know
victim to some larger scale problem but
it it isn't as replicated as it should
be right so you would think that going
from paper to bits you would get many
many more copies and you would have a
much more resilient systems but in
reality it's kind of not that way
because we haven't made it so like it's
actually pretty fragile and there's a
lot of people really worried about this
including the people at the Internet
Archive we've been trying to replicate
all the web itself and back it up for us
but they can't do everything and they
certainly don't have huge datasets like
the petabyte size datasets and so on
they don't back up those and that's
where a lot of scientific data is stored
in things like that and it could
disappear there's already been a few
cases where some archives got lost and
so that's should not happen again so
yeah we should not have another like
burning of Library of Alexandria moment
where suddenly all our papers are gone
that would really suck and so accidents
do happen data centers do catch on fire
digital stuff this domain does it here
so we need to prevent that and the way
we can we can do that is by creating
these like indexes of all the data and
helping people replicate and distribute
and mirror the data so this is stuff
that we don't have fully built out yet
but we have SPECT out and we'll be
working on this year these are creating
tools that can identify how many other
people have certain piece of data and
making sure that there's always a
certain number of online replicas for
something right so you would be able to
join a group in a sense that will
collaboratively back up some some
archive and you'll be able to allocate
some a certain amount of space to that
group and so the group should
intelligently redistribute the data
depending on on what nodes are online
right now right so if if a whole set of
notes disappears and suddenly you have
an uneven distribution you should be
able to remix who has what
to achieve like a more uniform
distribution so that you increase the
chances of everything surviving and yeah
so and we'll be working on the data set
index stuff because I think that that
will be pretty interesting for people so
this goes with see Ken Reitz on it and
you're familiar with see cancer when i
when i wrote that plaque and so on i
wasn't that familiar with she can and
one one of the things to do with is
potentially like a upgrade house he can
works to use these kinds of systems
where it's no longer like an individual
portal that has to hold the little data
but instead is just the index portion
and it's pointing to I PFS URLs or you
are is that anybody can can distribute
and of course there's like the
disconnected offline use you know
sometimes when you think about like a
crisis situation is right so so this is
like a a picture of as part of the
refugee crisis I think this was Pakistan
maybe and these are people signing up
refugees as they're coming into the
country and so those laptops there were
there like taking information those are
probably connected to the internet it's
not clear if they are they should be
able to like look people up but if the
connection goes down then that whole
station is useless right there so
there's this brittleness to connectivity
today where people can easily lose
connectivity or the connectivity may not
be that good and that applications stop
working simply because most people are
designing applications to work in the in
the best case of like really nice fast
bandwidth and they don't really deal
with a case of poor quality bandwidth
and so on you know the course there are
exceptions but the majority of what
applications don't work that way and so
the goal is to build the tooling and
infrastructure underneath the hood so
that developers don't have to think
about it that much they just have to
read your application and the system can
move the data where it needs to be and
you can create like replicates of large
amount of the data so you can continue
operating offline or continues you
getting data in sync when when the
network comes back online and I think
like perhaps like the last thing to
mention is like access controls with
capabilities so this means maybe
sometimes you want to
if you want to do like selective
disclosure or something where you want
to reveal certain pieces of information
but not not everything so sometimes is
that talked about is like the bouncer
problem where you know somebody goes to
a club and they want to verify that only
other over 18 and they really don't need
to reveal their entire you know like
license that includes their exact
birthdate and their address and you know
everything in reality you should be able
to just have signed statements that
prove that you are the proof certain
things and you'll be able to like
selectively disclose those this also has
a bearing in health data right so this
is where where the hospital data stuff
comes in where maybe you want to be able
to disclose certain pieces of
information but not everything to
specific groups over time and that
should be doable and we can do that with
capabilities so this is not you know
live in working today with on I PFS you
can do it if you know how to use
capabilities and so on you can do it
certainly but we want to have a library
available so that people so it's very
easy for people to do this where they
just have to like fall like a like a
tutorial basically and then suddenly
they have like a selective disclosure
document that they can reveal over time
cool so now um this is where I like
pause or because I've been talking for a
long time and I have like this other set
of life with like kind of like a lot of
details have had how different pieces
works so Ellie I pld stuff have a sign
links work how I pns works how the
versioning is going to work and so on I
can dive into that but I also want to
not just you know talk endlessly at you
so if you have any thoughts or questions
now we can discuss those or how are you
feeling overwhelmed you guys so all the
way each to their site I yeah but
probably not the not the best bar moment
talk I should have a thought that for
more
yeah you are very good and like my
question because they asked when I'm
totally passed is it possible to delete
data from ideas so sort of um to delete
data from a professed means to not have
people who are hosting it right and so
that actually is the same way that it
works today and then web so if you if
you upload an image say right up and you
have it in a website and you want to
delete it then you can take it down and
so that URL no longer works but usually
other people may have replicated that
information by that point and so you
can't really take it back right so the
internet or rather information works in
such a way that once you've revealed
information it's very difficult to take
it back and so as long as there's
somebody out there that wants to host it
they can continue to do so right so and
this has happened a number of times with
all sorts of content that yeah like it
just if it's out there is Heather um and
so he first doesn't fundamentally change
that um it just makes it so that like
that already happens in the worst case
right so for the in the worst cases of
like the data that most people like
people really don't want online some
group is like always making available
online so in the worst cases it's
already there on the case where it goes
bad is when you have these like large
data sets or something that suddenly
disappear and somebody has them on the
network and would be willing to serve
them but you don't know who it is and
you can't find them like that is like an
annoying problem that shouldn't be there
right and so today when you create an
application even if you use linked data
and even if you use nice URLs and so on
you're still dependent on the continued
existence of that organization if that
organization disappears you know five
years down the road that data is going
to disappear and so you you're really
like building on unstable foundations
right like you're building on mud in a
way because I can disappear at any
moment in time and even large companies
will go and like change the products and
make them disappear right so things like
like Google bleeder it has appeared
large sites go under everyone
in a while and so we want to live in a
web where once you have a piece of data
you should we look you should be able to
build on that piece of data as long as
you replicate it right so the the
content model is that the content isn't
immediately spread to the two people so
like this is I guess like a other
peer-to-peer systems work such that you
add a file and then immediately that
file gets the stupid or so a lot of
other people that's not the way that I
PFS works so with that would that be FS
you only download the stuff that you are
willing to download like explicitly and
this is a portent distinction because it
has like a lot of like um like legal
complications right so like the other
peer-to-peer systems have legal problems
because if somebody upload something
that's really bad like illegal bets
suddenly they get distributed to a whole
bunch of other people so that means that
nobody wants to use those pure pure
systems for legitimate traffic because
you might be stuck hosting something bad
right and like you don't want to do that
and so with that because that doesn't
work that way what what you do is you
add the content and so you make it
available on the network and it's not
until somebody else pulls it and
replicates it that it actually moves and
so what that means is that if you want
to make sure that something is available
in life you have to make sure that will
continue being the case but that means
you have the option to do so right so
the URL you can do so without the URI is
changing and that's like one of the
important details here where you can
band together with groups and say great
like we care about this data continuing
to exist everyone allocate some amount
of space or they hire it from from a
cloud provider or something and you
store the data there but any one of
those individual organizations can
disappear over time and the all of the
URIs will continue to work just fine you
can change providers you can change
locations you can change everything
about it as long as you're still
connections the network providing it
then you're good and so that's where the
ad Brazilian see comes in now we are
working on a network called Falcone and
this will come on top where you do it is
more like the traditional peer-to-peer
systems where when you add data
other people retrieve it from you and
like you you come at it together but
what that what that is doing is really
like a it's a different nature it's like
a like a service provider think of it a
little bit like AWS where you have a
network and then you sort of higher the
network to back up your data for you and
you either pay the network in in space
as I'm like you donate this space of the
network or you pay it in money like you
you get some cryptic currency and you
spend it there so but that's like
different and that's gonna be layered on
top of IP of us cool is that sort of to
make sense yes it does uh no other
requests you just like to see some
example it's just some real can you just
should show some real examples I think
that'd be good please oh yeah absolutely
so uh all right yeah let's see to be e I
know if you can see that increase the
font size well um can you see II that or
to the Pampas be logger we can just see
you we don't see your screen alrighty
thank you sure screen that's
cool so right now I PFS works through
most a command-line environment in that
we we just haven't made it all the way
up to the top tools where you'll be able
to just add and so on on everything
through through a web interface so oh
yeah what you were mentioning before in
terms of like a folder that you add and
so on so today you can get it with fuse
so you can actually mount ipf a second
file system and so it works a little bit
like a Dropbox folder it's not great yet
and it works a cup of fuse which isn't
super effective but um I'm like sort of
my here if don't work good nothing I
think I like broke my fuse distribution
right now so that's it let's work there
we go so now I can go into like a folder
like here I can have a folder so i can
like you can see foo and like i've got
an open foo but CD this isn't right so i
can like move it move content in here
from like say that and so what that is
doing it's like treating a little bit
like a like a I don't like a Dropbox
mount and so I can like view content
from there and I can actually oh fun
bugs yeah I think I like it totally
destroyed my life use equation looks
like
but this one of the reasons we don't
directly advertise this this one thing
that much because it's a little bit
flaky still and people have like varying
degrees of like success but people are
already working on unlike nice tools
that are like drag and drop where you
have and so it sort of works on the on
the web UI already where people you can
drag and drop into the web UI kind of
like a like a folder but this this will
look a lot more like the traditional
Dropbox saying that you're that you're
familiar with and so on but yes like
here I could like drag and drop a file
so i can go from like yeah like again
the city sorry random stuff and I just
drag and drop a file and like just add
it there and so like that adds it into
like now it's it's added he's this game
alright i'm running devil's of stuff so
I'm usually like on that's why it's like
hey new version these because i have
like actually like a different version
that's that's the one that you created
buddy so you can you can add content
this way on and so like not great like
now that's added and so you can like
view it directly so that just added here
so i should be able to like just view it
and so i can i now have it on the web
and available and so this this URL i can
i kept an exchange this for you know
like the global gateway and i should be
able to like tell interview that right
and so like here it's pulling it from my
computer and so this is going through
this this one link is going through the
global gateway so this is like a set of
servers out there
found the content for my computer pulled
it out and so now i can i can now
refresh this page and it will go much
faster because now those those far those
computers has it mmm swim there and goes
so passage so it depends on like the
yeah what the connection is doing and so
on but now those those sets of gateways
will now have that that file that i just
added locally and so yeah i can
configure also like that with a use of
the csv files that you already had and
so on right so this is where get work
with them but um you got to like we you
can easily add a whole bunch of files
and have like a directory listing right
so like a our entire distribution I like
if I so like the we have the site now
that shows you like the different
binaries that you can download and so on
and this whole thing is hosted like bffs
so that i can i can view it like a local
leaf i want a few right so i can go to
localhost 8080 ANS and this should not
own the content as well i'm not on a
super fast connection right now so it
might be a little bit flaky but great so
this this time the site rendered this is
being pulled directly from my local
machine so the content is hereinafter i
could disconnect and I could like
continue viewing this site and so you
can get like standard directory listings
like where you can actually go into like
you know you can add data this way and
get like a similar archive to most other
things where you can like have entire
directories and directory structures and
these could be you know any kind of
archives right and so other people can
help you distribute the same content
here and help host the data but you
still see it the same way that people
are used to on the web now for the the
we can have like that like an example
right now of like being able to drag and
drop stuff but like it is it is being
worked on so let's see if I can just
make sure you the repository think it's
like I oh
nice trying to find it there's a number
of people that I've been trying to
attack that so what's this um there's no
screenshots but yeah so there's this
like file browser thing that it's kind
of like a it looks like a folder like a
like a regular folder in your UI and
you'd be like dragging and dropping
things the same way and it adds it to a
BFS time and when you add something it's
like it's you duplicated right so if you
add a large file that has large blocks
that are the same it'll usually find
those and need to placate them yeah and
in this website's web UI that I showed
you so this this thing this application
so this is a web app itself right that
has like you know interrupts I'd like
the other right but uh what's what's
going on is this is actually like I'm
entirely posted through IPS itself so
these are real peers not going to do or
you can see it how it's like finding
them it's it's doing for each one of
these is doing we restore to an index of
of IP addresses to find out where they
are so this is like populating the
network with like where they are and
these are people that I'm like directly
connected to so I'm I'm directly gonna
to 90 or so Pierce and this whole web
application or whatever is hosted on
distributed to I PFS so this is what we
meant like a totally distributed app and
I'll try to like demo the the chat with
dad that like worse
so this will work this is it all by
somebody else not us but this is like a
chat sits on that you log in and you can
then art like chatting with people
hopefully it'll it'll load at some point
we'll make something like this ourselves
that we can use alike it's reliable and
so on but on hmm valentine's day another
he runs like some some system that helps
make it run too i don't know if it's
like maintaining it at the moment yeah
it's not it's all right i'm on that's
annoying but i can i can trigger link it
at some point to this and you can like
try it out but I don't you why it's not
connected
Oh
connecting yeah for whatever reason like
this this thing is not working at the
moment but this person built this whole
chat thing and there it's we thought
story for it I'm like here it's kind of
like what it looks like so it like works
a little bit like this where people I
start entering messages and it's meant
to work a little bit like I like IRC and
right now it's it's a little bit painful
to like set it up and so on but that's
getting easier and easier over time like
this is pretty new like he developed it
pretty recently so there's a lot of
activity right now happening with like
all these different kinds of
applications here's another interesting
one it's like the data center the data
bit aside package manager type thing so
regular mirror is another one of these
things let's see you've what's the blog
post which is the watch one use a
computer version of the talk yeah so
yeah David brought this this whole
tooling around NPM so that when you use
NPM it actually pulls out the modules
all from I PFS directly and like that
works really really well and a whole
bunch of people are like using it
already and he has like this video demo
that that goes through it and how it
works and so on so I'll drop a link
there yeah and I think oh yeah the
archives so this might be interesting to
show you so we have this whole effort
ground replicating large archive to Zeta
and so there's a whole bunch of them
that are already going like for example
like yes or like archive itself Project
Gutenberg why archive entire snapshots
of like different you know protein
protein data bank and so on stack
exchange and so on and like all of these
usually will have like some URL of like
progress of like people that are
starting to make those archives work
trying to see if I if I can find oh
I guess if I do yeah if I usually Google
will show me a few see ya here I will be
able to like jump directly into like a
lot of the archive pages in a moment oh
no what did I have that yeah so there's
like these a whole set of maybes here
look yeah here we go so here for example
right so this is a PDF that is coming
from the archive org website so this is
like a paper but it's not actually
hosted from them it's like Costa through
I PFS and so here you can like see like
the rest of the contents of the archives
like you hear like a whole bunch of
papers and and PDFs and so on sometimes
they come along with data and like you
can see like lots of the stuff and so
you can replicate this entire thing
yourself and so be sure we were right
now only able to replicate the ones that
are all CC by because there's archive
has the different licenses for the data
so some of them we can't replicate but
like this is like an archive of all of
the pdfs of the stuff so you know like
I'm viewing these papers and they're not
coming from the you know central server
at all they're coming from different
peers that have them and so this this
all of the PDF right now is being loaded
from different sets of people right and
so and this right now I'm loading it
through the global gateway I can load it
locally and this might go a little bit
slow kits have to pull a bunch of stuff
oh yeah we're good
Thanks great is that so like query
multiple different hop so let's see if
at all we're great yeah so yeah so this
now I'm viewing this archive now from my
local machine and yet so it's a little
slow because there's I guess not that
many computers replicating this archive
at the moment and my own so my
connection is slower so if we view like
some of the global gateway it's it's
better I can send you a link to this so
that you can like they are on it great
yeah so let's say put it in
yeah it should be able to just click on
that and you get like this large archive
of stuff and you can yeah you can't dive
into it and see the pdfs and so on can
you just shows the digital signature I'm
interested in that just show up in
except you can the file what happens you
know yeah so so um yeah let me let me
show you too let's see there's two
things around this one part of it is
creating a sign link and the other party
it's actually restoring sign data right
so the storing sign data that just means
take a document and sign it through any
kind of algorithm that you want and then
that way you just move around the
content along with the signature right
so this this just means like traditional
PGP style stuff right to like I forget
what the actual commands with GP qtr but
like you can use just your BD to sign a
set of data and then like actually like
I'm include like some some file that
right so let's I'll just like look at
echo reply and see the exact commands
jpg sign who wants me to confirm that I
mckinnon searching too much let's see
and uh huh and we have like a we're
making our own signing tools and so on
that are a lot easier to use just
because like gpg is not the same oh
maybe cubase will do it let's see a sign
better wait for me alright guys think do
you have cubase locally who is like much
easier to use and GP g oq
sign it should work I've really liked
guys what would you end up with is a
file that just has the actual signature
and that gets added along with the rest
of the file so then you have it there
and you can verify it so it's like the
less interesting case for us it's just
kind of like great you have a signature
along with it what I'll do is I'll like
I'll actually like show you a direct
example like I'll write out an example
of how to do it I don't send to you but
like the more interesting part is when
you have a sign link and what this means
is like you have an actual URI to
something and that's using a public key
right so this is uh oh I guess explain
how that works and i'll just demo it for
you so this goes into this tank yeah so
we call these like missouri's links
because there they were kind of invented
by a guy named I didn't mysterious so
the idea is like this blue part is is a
hash but it's not the hash of the
content it's the hash of a public key
and what that means is that you can if
you have a public-private feet there you
can create a link to some content that
you can update over time right so you
can point it to to this you know 21 in
version of the content now and pointing
to another version tomorrow and so on
and the way you do that is by by
creating a pointer that's saying hey
like the latest version of this link is
this this one and you sign it with a
with a private key and so you can follow
that link right so having the the hash
of the public key allows you to search
on a dhg for these records for the
latest version of the record of this
pointer and you retrieve it and then you
can follow it to the content and so
that's kind of like a in theory sort of
how it works and we we treated us like
he addressing and that's what we call it
like we call it I pns key addressing and
the record is a little bit more
complicated at a facility to go in to
detail there but like the idea is that
it has like the record has like the
actual value that you're pointing to it
has it links to the key that you are
using to sign it very has like the
actual signature
and I'll just demo it working for you so
the right now we have it under IPO
that's name and right now you only have
one one name but this will be you'll be
0 then I definitely links that you want
pretty shortly so say that right now I
am so say that I add some content right
so I think that's odd I added like some
some content right and I can look at
that pedophiles here so I can go to like
localhost 8080 slash epithets / the
actual hash and I have like the actual
content that i just added right so this
is again like that picture and I have
some other stuff like picture by CAD um
and some test files wait so if this
hatch will change if I change the
contents of that directory right so if I
if I add another file like like this and
I add it again then the hatch of the
directory has now changed right so now
it's it's something different and I can
go I'll opening a different tab so you
can see the difference right so now it's
cume something like that larger so this
this thing here is now different because
it has this another file thing that I
just created so now that the top hatch
is different right so this is kind of
what you were seeing before the rest of
the houses are the same because that
content hasn't changed and all of that
is you duplicated so that's one of the
things here like none of this content is
stored twice it's only started once but
you still have changed the route of the
of the things so it either inspected
right so the way we fix that is by using
names and so I can just do I Pat's name
publish and pass in that hat is an
argument and what this is doing is it is
a crafts that record and publishes it to
the DHT so my name is this one so i took
this hash this qmq seven whatever and
publishers at this other value and will
make a lot of this easier to use right
now it's a little clunky but that means
that i can now go through local host
I pns and acts as that link let's see I
think this time so right now it's like
trying to query the DHD to see if
there's another record and sometimes it
takes a bit it's part of the reason we
have in like which has one very hard so
yeah so this is like the old version
right so this is a different hash now
and it's pointing to the old word but
now I can take the the new version like
the new version of the hash and publish
that one and so this is going to do that
same thing it's just going to update the
pointer so great so now we publish the
same name to the new version so that
means that I can refresh this one and it
will look at I don't on a global brands
like hitting some cash yes you really
work that might not work this great so
this I decide on like a global gateway
and like this is like a new updated
version of it so it's the it has the
another file thing but the URI the URI
remained the same and this is not human
readable right but what it gives you is
like it gives you the ability to like
update the pointers without relying on
any any kind of centralized Authority um
you can use human readable names and
this is another this is the other layer
of using DNX linking for human friendly
name so this is like this part where you
going to like actual actually nice links
and this is how we saw that type that I
showed you earlier that best I profess
that I oh this is how we do that so what
this is doing this website is actually
going to I professor io / IP NS / that
that that link and what this is doing on
the hood is it exactly that the main aim
and looking for it on the NS and it
finds a so if you look like tax record
it finds a good sex record here and so
this is pointing to a latest version of
the content that you want and so if I
want to update this site I just update
that DNS pointer and that's it answer
that URL remains the same and it's also
a human readable right so it's it's
something that you can get people a site
that looked exactly the same as a psych
look today right like this that I PFS
that I out it's not look like you know
different at all it's like looks exactly
the same as people normally see it but
this right now is getting hosted by Fe
FS so if it this will go to the global
gateway that we have right now but if
you have like a local insulation in your
browser then it will pull it from your
local gateway does economic sense that
there's a lot going on in making that
work so it can sound a pretty confusing
but like the result is really nice like
you get something that doesn't look at
all different from what people are used
to today so just to summarize if I have
a fall under in its has five files in it
the grand if I give the link to the
individual files to people that's
perfect and then i may add a sixth file
all of its gonna change is the link to
the folder itself and the link obviously
to be a new link to the sixth file yeah
alright so it seemed fitting yeah that's
the best lee adding part where we added
different directories here so that's
like the part where we had the yeah like
um yeah in fact like let's i'll just do
it like slower this time so let's say
that we have like three you know five
different files like three different
files we have a directory with three
files one two three one captain I guess
so I have like three different files
each have a different number inside of
them and if I I prefer to add directory
and yeah I end up with you know some set
of hatches and a different one for the
root right and this is kind of like what
we were saying before and so yeah I can
see those files and so on now on the web
you know it's just like the number one
and so on but the hatch of the route
will change if i add a la fourth one
right so if I go now I go and add a
fourth and the Ducks change when i add
it but the only thing that changes is
that is a last one right so the first
three like notice that these three
hashes are the same there as they are
here because the same content that it's
going to be duplicated each other Rudin
has now changed but this is what then
the names are for the names allow you to
hand out the same link without having to
change the link ok that's good good
question but I you steal the old
stainless is good sorry I want him if I
use the old cash with only three I still
get the stages of sleep bars yep yeah
yeah so all of that is immutable and
hosted there if you can think of it like
get and version history so it's all
there and so the name the one that's
mutable and you can move around that one
is just a pointer to the to the other
ones right so you have all this
immutable content that's being added and
you're just pointing to it it's really a
graph right so I'm i can show you like
what what it's actually happening
underneath the hood so and
so we have this tool called graph can be
that like actually like visualizes show
i'll do it for a little bit writer day
mmm this is just like I'm got to create
an SVG of the graph right so so this is
like a directory that I was adding it
has a whole bunch of stuff and like
here's that directory that I was doing
like with four files named 1234 so here
it is here's our directory and here's
the content right it's just like a grass
underneath the hood and you know here's
like a whole bunch of other stuff here's
like a tree picture you know got chunked
so this is 1 this is one file but it got
jumped into multiple different sub
chunks because it's pretty big and
there's a whole bunch of other stuff so
here there's like a big archive with a
lot of data so this yeah if we if we
then go and create and you stated like I
just like replicate the entire so say
like I'm just going to create a copy of
the entire directory I'm just called
basic 2 and then I'm going to add both
of them to I'm going to move like
basically threw into basic one I'm just
like creating a whole bunch of duplicate
data right now and I'll show you your
level happens is this something that
happens when I'm when these files are
added so names like Chris realize
actually like helps a lot so now with
all this duplicate duplicate data what
happened is that the graph now has a
whole bunch of different names for the
same stuff right so you have a root
directory you have this these two files
and all of these and files and so on are
being pointed to by two different things
because they're they're referenced in
two different places does that make
sense I don't know if I i went to pass
on that another so it's good time yeah
so it's likely duplicating everything so
that all the names remain the same so
yeah look it was looks so much great
yeah you're showing magic it looks so
easy little simple it's simple it's just
a it's just a lot of it right now we're
making nicer and nicer front end tools
for people to to like use without having
to know all the command line stuff but
we're not fully there yet with some of
them and yet we're making like you Tori
open guys this is maybe something that
would be helpful too because the
community kind of makes stuff s it's
it's requested if you send like a list
of things that you would love to know
how to do then we can start creating
guides for doing all of those things
because we just need to improve our docs
like our documentation is pretty sparse
right now and we we've been we know that
I'm we've been allocating time to do it
and fix it if every and March so we can
go and do that east Luca thank you very
much for playing and yeah yeah thank you
thank you for having me sorry it was a
little bit too uh diving too much into
the tech right now I know it's like a
weird it over there thank you so much it
was great
at the line yep the ice with yeast 00
full homework asking for oh that's good
so right here shoo